---
title: Introduction
---

The civil war between the Royalists and the Confederates is tearing Artumbria apart.  Three years in and Chiavari is the only duchy not to declare for either side.  To begin with this put it in a position of strength.  But that was before the goblinoid invasion.  They came out of the western forests, burning villages and slaughtering the people.  The Chiavarian forces have mobilised and are now engaged in a fierce counter-attack, led by Grand Duke Fiero himself.  None of the other duchies will come to help, Chiavari is on its own.

Whilst the defense against the goblinoid armies goes on in the west, the rest of the duchy has become increasingly unruly.  Order has been maintained in the capital, but Chiavari’s second city, Rossano Calabro, has become a hive of corruption, extortion and prejudice.  The city has always been ruled by four dukes (the Council of Four), with one of them serving as High Duke on a rotational five year term.  One year into his term, High Duke Boccaccio Alfieri, made the decision to hire a mercenary company to help keep order in the city.  He employed the Almogavars, a company from the northern island nation of Erendira.  Their reputation is both extremely capable but also very harsh.  High Duke Alfieri took the decision that this was what was needed in such desperate times.

Two years later and the rot has continued to spread.  With the traditional City Watch reduced to a token force, the Almogavars (or Vars) have taken virtual control of the city.  They still take orders from the High Duke, but they are resorting to harsher and harsher methods.  The three other Dukes grumble behind the back of High Duke Alfieri and discontent is growing amongst the commoners and nobles alike.

Rossano Calabro’s neighbour, Elturel, could not be more different.  The city has remained orderly and calm.  The knightly order, the Hell Riders, are the opposite of the Vars.  They have kept a just rule, as they have done for hundreds of years.  Elturel’s ruler, High Overseer Dante Vespucci, is highly regarded, acting both as a great political mediator and as a holy cleric of Heol.  He became leader ninety-three years ago when he saved the city from the High Vampire Blavatsky.  The city had been besieged by the Vampire and his army of the undead.  Dante Vespucci had prayed to Heol for aid and his prayers were granted in the form of the Companion - a giant sphere of radiant energy which appeared over Elturel.  It’s holy light caused Blavatsky and his army to flee, saving the city.  Vespucci was elected leader and ruled over a prosperous city ever since, the Companion remaining as a testament to Heol’s blessing.  Elturel stands as a beacon of hope against the chaos and anarchy facing most of Chiavari.

This all changed when High Duke Boccaccio Alfieri left on a diplomatic trip to Elturel ten days ago, accompanied by an Almogavarn escort.  Five days later bizarre and shocking rumours began to arrive that the entire city of Elturel had disappeared along with its residents.  Dismissed at first, these rumours continued to grow and then the refugees started arriving, those residents who had been outside the city limits when it disappeared.  They spoke of how the Companion, the protective radiant sphere, had turned black and lightning began raining down on the city.  Within minutes the city was consumed by the forces raging from the Companion and when the storm finally cleared, Elturel was gone, leaving nothing but an enormous crater where it once stood.

The arrival of these refugees has caused panic in Rossano Calabro and wild speculation about whether the city may suffer the same fate.  High Duke Alfieri has not returned and is presumed to have disappeared along with Elturel.  This has exacerbated tensions as the Vars have lost their employer.  The three remained Dukes eye one-another warily across this apparent power vacuum, waiting to gauge whether the others will make a move for power.  The decision has been made to close the city gates against any more refugees.  The Vars fear they are causing undue panic and they don’t like the rumours they’ve heard of some of the Hell Riders having made it into the city.  Though not enough to present a military threat, the presence of these knights is unsettling for the mercenary company.

To make matters worse, in the last two days there have been several attacks by a group called the Cult of the Dead Three.  The incidences have ranged from theft to assault to outright murder.  The Vars are struggling to deal with the refugees and riots as it is, and this new threat may prove one problem too far.

The disappearance of the holy city Elturel, the possible threat to Rossano Calabro, the fate of High Duke Alfieri and Overseer Vespucci, how the Cult of the Dead Three might relate to these events.  All of them mysteries to be revealed and wrongs to avenged.  Such dire times demand greatness.  Step forth adventurers, destiny calls.
